Data Scientist Toolbox

Week 1
The person actually gets things done matters. 

key challenge: problem solving, surplus or insufficient info

surplus: filter out irrelevant info
insufficient: go find more

focus on questions with data you have

Why data science
data cheaper to collect, store. current trend Big Data: GPS data, gene
statistics: to learn somthing

This class focus on:
hacking skills: R language, ability to answer question yourself
math and statistics knowledge

R important function
access help file: ?rnorm <=> help.search("rnomr") in this case, correct name not necessary
find arguments of a function: args("rnorm")

lapply: takes a list, and a function and apply the function to each element in the list
qplot

How to ask R question
1. steps taken to reproduce the problem
2. the expected output
3. the actual output
4. version of packages you use
5. the operating system

How to ask data analysis question
1. the question you r answering
2. steps taken
3. expected result
4. actual outcome
5. other solutions you think of

forums: general questions
StackOverflow: use tag "[r]"
R mailing list: for software questions
CrossValidated: for more general questions
Google: "[data type] data analysis" or "[data type] R package"(better)

Data science in different fields has different names:
refer to lecture notes: findingAnswers.pdf

Build R packages for others: links in buildingDataProducts.pdf
RCharts: for marketing, links in lecture note

R packages for machine learning: 


Week 2

Markdown Syntax 

Introduction to markdown: http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/
Headings: ## This is a secondary heading(first level title)
	  ### This is a tertiary heading(second level)

Unordered lists: * first item in list
		 * second item in list


Primary location for obtaining R packages is CRAN.
For biological applications, many packages are available from Bioconductor Project.

R Package Installation
From CRAN (commands below are R functions)
install.packages("slidify") 	(any dependent packages will also downloaded and installed.)
install.packages(c("slidify", "ggplot2", "devtools"))

From other source
source("www.your/source/websit")
bioLite()	(this line will load the packages from package websit, it will take a little time )
bioLite(c("package", "name"))

Usage
to use package function, type 
library(ggplot2) 	(ggplot2 is a library, do not put package name in qoutes)

then all functions exported by that package will be attached to the top of search list
type: search()


Week 3
Types of Data Science Questions
1. descriptive: just describe the data, not interpretation!!! not making any decision
2. exploratory: to disconver connections, but not the final say(no confirmation). should not 
		be used for generalization and prediction. Correlation does not imply causation.
3. inferential: extract a small population to study and use the result to infer a larger population.
		It is the goal of statistical model. It involves quantity you care about and 
		uncertainty about your estimate. Depends heavily on population and sampling scheme.
4. predictive: X predicts Y does not mean X causes Y. To predict value.
5. causal
6. mechanistic

The most important: questions to answer
second most important: data 










