proclivity: the fact that someone likes something or likes to do something, especially something considered morally wrong
the sexual provlivities of celebrities. his proclivity for shapely blond
In the view of some people, a problem the field of political science is that the proclivities/inclinations of its practioners are
predominantly liberal, while those of subjects of their inquiry are often conservative

protégé /ˈprɒt.ə.ʒeɪ/: a young person who is help and taught by an older and usually famous person
The young composer regarded himself as Berg's protégé

riot: noisy, violent and uncontrolled meeting. a funny and entertaining occassion or person
inner city riot erupted when a local man was shot by police
the party was great, we had a riot

riot gear: special clothes and equipment police use when dealing with a large violent group of people
police in riot gear broke up the protest

dichotomy /daɪˈkɒt.ə.mi/ [C usually singular]: a difference between two completely opposite ideas or things
there is often a dichotomy between what politician says and what they do

preordain /ˌpriː.ɔːˈdeɪn/: (specially of a power thought to be greater than ordinary people) to decide or fix what will happpen 
in a way that cannot be changed or controlled
illinesses and suffering seemed preordained to her lot
his life seemd to follow a preordained path/direction

pragmatic: solving problem in a sensible way that suit the conditions that really exist now, rather than obeying fixed theories, rules or ideas
in business, the pragmatic approach is often more successful than the idealistic one

nascent: only recently formed or started, but likely to grow larger quickly
a nascent political party, a nascent problem

syncretism /ˈsɪŋkrətɪzəm/: the combining of different, often contradictory beliefs. syncretism involves the merger and analogizing of serveral
originally discrete traditions

ephemeral: lasting only for a short time
fame in the world of rock and pop is largely ephemeral

arcane: mysterious and known by only a few people
he was the only person who understand all the arcane details of the agreement
the arguement may seem arcane to those not closely involved in the world of finance

ersats /ˈer.zɑːts/: used instead of something else, usually because the other thing is too expensive or rare
I'm allowed to eat ersatz chocolate bar made of carob beans, but it's a poor substitute for the real thing

disseminate: spread

reprehensible: extremely bad or unacceptable

lambaste /læmˈbæst/: to critize someone or something severely
his novel was well and truly lambasted by critrics 

explicate /ˈek.splɪ.keɪt/: to explain something in detail, especially a piece of writing or an idea

passé /pæsˈeɪ/: no longer fashionable
wines from that region was quite popular for a while, but they are rather passé

desultory /ˈdes.əl.tər.i/: without a clear plan or purpose and showing little effort and interest
she made a desultory attempt at conversation
he wandered around, cleaning up in a desultory way

myriad /ˈmɪr.i.əd/: a very large number of something
a myriad of choices
now myriads of bars and hotels are opening up along the coast 

paucity: the fact that there is too little of something
there is a paucity of information on the ingredients of many cosmetics

cosmetics: substances that you put on your face or body that are intended to improve you appearance
we sell a wide range of cosmetics and toiletries at a very reasonably price

toiletries /ˈtɔɪ.lə.triz/: objects or substances you use in washing yourself and prevent the body smelling unpleasant	
inside the bag were shampoo and other toiletries.

allegiance: loyalty and support for a ruler, country, group or belief
soldiers have to swear allegiance to the crown/king.
in many American schools, many students pledge allegiance (to the flag) at the beginning of the school day.
as an English man had lived for a long time in France, he felt a certain conflict of allegiances when the two countries
play soccer.

allegory /ˈæl.ə.ɡə.ri/: a story, play, poem, picture or other work in which the characters and events represent particular
qualities or ideas related religion, morals and politics
Augustine's "City of God" is an allegory of the triumph of Good over Evil

implication vs inference

inference: a guess or opinion based on information you have
they were warned to expect heavy air attacks and by inferences many casualties

implication: an occassion when you seem to suggest something withou say explicitly
she accused the party and, by implication, its leader too.
the effect that an action or decision will have on something else in future
what are the implication of the new law

tendentious /tenˈden.ʃəs/: (of speech or writing) expressing or supporting an idea that many people disagree with
tendentiously, tendentiousness

solipsism /ˈsɒl.ɪp.sɪ.zəm/: the belief that only your own experience and existence can be known
solipsistic /ˌsɒl.ɪpˈsɪs.tɪk/: 

heuristic /hjʊˈrɪs.tɪk/: (of a method of teaching) allowing students to learn by discovering things or learning from their
own experiences rather than telling them things

illusion(noun), illusory(adj): not real and based on illusion 
their hopes of a peaceful solution turned out to be illusory

utilitarian /ˌjuː.tɪ.lɪˈteə.ri.ən/: designed to be useful rather than decorative
like many factories, it is an ugly utilitarian building

enigma /ɪˈnɪɡ.mə/: something mysterious and seems impossible impossible to understand completely 
she is something of an enigma
The Mona Lisa has a famous enigmatic smile
she left an enigmatic massage on answering my phone

cognitive: connected with thinking or conscious mental processes
some of their cognitive functions have been impaired
cognitive behavour/development, cognitive psychology

albeit /ɔːlˈbiː.ɪt/: although
The evening was very pleasant, albeit a little quiet

ad infinitum /ˌæd.ɪn.fɪˈnaɪ.təm/: for ever, never ending
Why was she such a lousy boss? Because she was unreasonable, disrespectable, rude and inconsiderate.
I could go on ad infinitum.
Mahtematicians believe that pi represented as a decimal continues ad infinitum

Since human beings make noise, use gestures, employ combinations of objects and actions to convey 
meaning, there is a place for a discipline to analyze this kind of activity and make explicit the 
systems of convention on which it rests.
Semioitcs is based on the assumption that insofar as human actions or prodcutions convey meaning,
insofar as they function as signs, there must be an underlying system of conventions and distinctions
which make this meaning possible. Where there are signs there is system. This is what various 
signifying activities have in common, and if one is determined to find their essential nature one must 
not treat them in isolation but as examples of semiotic systems.
Various topologies of signs have been proposed, but three fundamental classes of signs seem to stand
out as requiring different approaches: the icon, the index and the sign proper(sometimes misleadingly
called 'symbol'). All signs consist of a signifier and a signified, a form and an associative meaning;
but the relations between signifier and signified are different for each of these three types of sign.
An icon involves actual resemblance between signifier and signified. In an index, the relation between
signifier and signified is causal. In the sign proper, the relation between signifier and signified 
is arbitary and conventional.

adhere: to cling or follow without deviation
Some people critize schools because they encourage students to adhere unthinkingly to rules.

adherent:
A debate broke out betweem two groups of the religous leaders' adherents with different views.

ad hominem /ˌæd ˈhɑ:mɪnem/： appealing to prejudice or passion; attacking someone's adversary rather
than his or her argument.
The debate moderator participants she would not tolerate ad hominem arguments

clay: thick, heavy soils which is soft when wet, and hard when dry, used for making bricks and containers
clayey (adj) clayey soil

adversarial /ˌæd.vəˈse.ri.əl/: involving people opposing or disagreeing with each other
In the old days of two-party adversarial politics, voting was easy.
I prefer we have a corporative relationship rather than an adversarial one

aegis /ˈiː.dʒɪs/: sponsorship or protection
Negotiations are being conducted under the aegis of the United Nations

solidify /səˈlɪd.ɪ.faɪ/: to change from liquid or gas to a solid form, or to make something do this
Molten volcanic lava solidify as it cools. The chemical reaction solidifies the resin
To become or make something certain:
He solidified his commitment to the treaty, giving a forceful speech in favour of it.

bust: a woman's breasts, or measurement around the breasts and back
I could not find any blouses in my bust size.

a model of head and shoulders of a person
There was a bust of Mahler on his desk.

an occasion when police arrest people who are thought to have broken the law
In their latest drug bust, police entered a warehouse where the drug dealers were meeting

The real-life body armor may have one leg up functional version: the military suit will be made of liquid 
armor that can solidify on command

amalgam /əˈmæl.ɡəm/: a mixture of mercury and other metal, especially used by dentist to repair teeth
an amalgam filling

a combination of parts that create a complete whole
The show was a wonderful amalgam of dance, music and drama

fine-tune：to make small changes in order to make work as well as possible
She spent hours fine-tuning her speech

exoskeleton: a hard outer layer that covers, protects and support part of body of an invertebrate animal
such as an insect or crustacean

crustacean /krʌsˈteɪ.ʃən/: any of various types of animal that live under water and have a hard outer layout
shell

ballistic /bəˈlɪs.tɪk/: connected with ballistics(a study of objects that are shot or thrown through the air,
such as bullets from a gun)
An amalgam of academics, defense industry types and Pentagon personnel are trying to fine-tune the battery-
powered exoskeleton, which would reduce strain on body, provide superior ballistic protection and in-helmet
technologies to boost communications and visibility.

mortal: unable to continue living for ever, having to die
For all men are mortal

causing death:
Men were engaged with a mortal combat. mortal injury

maneuverable /məˈnuː.vrə.bl̩/:easy to move and direct
while many of the suit's technologies exist, researchers are tasked to adapt those technologies to product
that are both advanced and maneuverable.

churn /tʃɝːn/: to move something, especially a liquid, with great force
The sea was churned up by heavy winds.

to mix milk until it becomes butter

if your stomach is churning, you are nervous.
I had my driving test that morning and my stomach was churning.

if customers churn between two companies that provide a particular service, they change repeatedly from one
to another.
The program has churned out serveral prototypes and is on track to deliver the first-generation suit.

boon /buːn/: something that is helpful and improves the quality of life
The research on TALOS has also been a boon in other areas, helping the military develop improved technologies
related to lightweight armor and communication system.

spin-off: a product that develops from another more important product
The research has had lots of spin-off in the development of medical equipment.

a program or a show involving other characters from a previous programme
The stage show is a spin-off from a television programme.

dunk: to put a biscuit, a piece of bread into liquid such as tea, coffee or soup for a short time before eating
She dunked a biscuit into her coffee.
Dunk the sponge into water once in a while to keep from drying out.

in basketball: a slam-dunk

sponge /spʌndʒ/: a soft substance that is full of small holes and can absorb lots of liquid, and is used for 
cleaning or washing
the action of rubbing something or someone with a wet sponge to clean it, he or her.
Give it a sponge with a damp cloth - that will remove the blood stains.

huddle: to come close to a group, or to hold you hands and arms to your body, especially because of cold or fear
Everyone huddled roud the campfire to keep warm
Sophie was so frightened by the noise of fireworks that she huddle in a corner of the room.

trophy: a prize, such as a gold or silver cup, given to the winner of a competition or a race, and often returned
after a year to be given to the winner of the competition in the following year.
He is an excellent rider, but he has never won a major trophy.
The Duchess of Cambridege will be presenting the trophies.

gash: make a long, deep cut in something, especially the skin on a part of the body.

chassis /ˈʃæs.i/: the frame of vehicle, including the wheels and engine, onto which a metal covering is fixed
The car's lightweight chassis is made from aluminium sheets.
At the back on the screen is an aluminium chassis that the rest of the display is fastened to, which makes the \
screen durable.

gut: most screens kind of float on top the phone's gut

laminate /ˈlæm.ɪ.nət/: any material is made by sticking serveral layer of the same material together
laminate flooring
The next layer is a flexibel display that looks and feels like a plastic laminate.

lens: a curved piece of glass, plastic or other transparent material, used in cameras, glasses, and scienticfic
equipment, that makes object seem closer, smaller, larger
In front of that is a flexible touch layer followed by flexible lens layer.

exterior /-ˈstɪr.i.ɚ/: on or from the outside
In some of the villages, the exterior walls of houses are painted pink.
Exterior to the main house there is a small building that could be used as an office or studio.
And it's all topped with a hard exterior lens that works like a screen protector.

shatter: to break something into small pieces
The glass is shattered into a thousand tiny pieces.
His leg was shattered in an accident.
The shatterproof of technology has long been promised by screen makers, but early attempts at flexible display
does not do the tricks.

trot /trɑːt/: If a horse or similar animal trot, it runs at its slowest speed, using short steps in which a front
leg and a back leg on the opposite site move together
She was trotting along her pony.

when somebody trot somewhere, they go there in a quick and busy way
CNNMoney tested its claims by allowing a horse-drawn carriage to trot over the phone.

unscathed /ʌnˈskeɪðd/: without damage or injuries being caused
Her husband died in an car accident, but she, amazingly escaped unscathed.

pathogen /ˈpæθ.ə.dʒən/: any small organism, such as virus or bacterium that can cause diseases
The share tight quaters with previously undetected, opportunistic bacterial pathogens.

innocuous /ɪˈnɒk.ju.əs/: completely harmless
Some mushrooms look innocuous but are in fact poisonous.

acne /ˈæk.ni/: a skin disease common in young people, in which small, red spots appear on face or neck
Acne is the curse of adolescence.

fermenter /fəˈmentər/: a substance that cause fermentation
Alcoholic fermentation is a type of anaerobic respiration in which sugar is changed to alcohol and carbon dioxie
Humans are great fermenters. It's not that our astronauts are bad bathers. It's that we naturally host to tens 
of billions of mostly harmless bacteria.

chute /ʃuːt/: a narrow, steep slope down which objects or people can slide
a water chute, garbage chut, laundry chut, an emergency chut
It's right down the hall next to the trash chut.

audition: a short performance that a actor, musician, dancer gives in order to show they are suitable for a
particular film, show or play
I'd audition for that show

pap smear: （用于筛查子宫颈癌） 涂片试验;
Until a few years ago, the best defense is pap smear to detect and treat precancerous cells.
The last time I saw this much stainless steel is when I getting a pap smear.

sub-zero: refrigerator that could provide sub-zero temperature to keep food

ooey-gooey: sticky 
The grilled cheese is so ooey-gooey

publicist: someone who arranges publicity for a person, organization by giving information to reporters, 
television, radio companies and arranging press meetings and special events.

way out of my league: too excellent, gorgeous, cultured to catch up, untouchable
She is cultured, gorgeous and way out of my league.

high-society: 
He's going to propose to his high-society girl friend.

gorgonzola cheese: 蓝纹奶酪

caramelize /ˈkær.ə.məl.aɪz/: to cook with sugar so that food become sweet and brown 焦糖
I've made Cornish game hen with gorgonzola caramelized pear, truffle mashed potatoes and a big side dish of bite me

twinkie 蛋黄派

éclair /ɪˈkleər/: a small think cake made of pastry, with cream inside and usually chocolate on top
泡芙

wig /wɪɡ/: a covering of artificial hair worn on the head to hide a loss of hair or to cover your own hair
You scared me so badly when I found you in the closet that my wig nearly fall off.

elusive: difficult to find, describe, remeber and achieve
The answer to these question remain as elusive as forever.
Success, however, remain elusive for her.

sabotage: to destroy or damage
I am so used to getting things I want that I sabotage things to create challenge.











